29th Jan Python Assignment


ques 1:- Who developed python programming  language?
ans :- Guido van Rossum

ques 2:-Which type of programming language does python support?
ans:-Object-oriented programming and structured programming are fully supported,
	 and many of their features support functional programming and aspect-oriented
	 programming (including metaprogramming and metaobjects).

ques 3:-Is python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers ?
ans:-Yes, Python is a case-sensitive language,  it treats uppercase and lowercase characters
 	differently.This applies to identifiers too. You must avoid using the same name with different 
	cases while naming identifiers. It is always good to use names that are more easily understood

ques 4:-What is correct extension of the python file?
ans:- .py

ques 5:-Is python code compiled or interpreted ?
ans:- Python is an interpreted language, which means the source code of a Python program is converted into
	 bytecode that is then executed by the Python virtual machine.
ques 6:- Name a few blocks of code used to define in python language ?
ans:- The following are blocks: a module, a function body, and a class definition. Each command typed 
	interactively is a block.A script file (a file given as standard input to the interpreter or specified as a 
	command line argument to the interpreter) is a code block.

ques 7:- State a character used to give sing le comments in python ?
ans :- "#"

ques 8:- Mention functions which can help us to find the version that we are currently working on?
ans :-  The function sys. version can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on.

ques 9:- Python supports the creation of anonymous sunctionst runtime .using a construct called?
ans :- lambda

ques 10:- What does pip stands for python?
ans :- pip Install Packages

ques 11:- Mention a few built-in functions in python?
ans:-
print( ) function.
type( ) function.
input( ) function.
abs( ) function.
pow( ) function.
dir( ) function.
sorted( ) function.
max( ) function.

ques 12:-What is maximum possible length of an identifier in python?
ans :-  An identifier can have a maximum length of 79 characters in Python

ques 13:- what are benefits of using python ?
ans :-
a)Large developer community. 
b)Python is one of the most popular programming languages in the world. ...
	Extensive libraries. 
c)Python offers a wide range of libraries that can be used across various applications. ...
d)Write less, do more. 
e)Python has very concise syntax. ...
f)Portability. ...
g)Wide range of use cases.

ques 14:- How is memory managed in python ?
ans:- The memory is a heap that stores the program's objects and other data structures.
	 The Python memory manager uses API methods to handle the allocation and deallocation of this heap space. 
	We create a new Class in the example above. 
	After that, we created an instance of the class and made it a property of itself

ques 15:-How to install Python on windows and set path variables?
ans:-In the section entitled User Variables, double-click on the entry that says Path. Another window will pop up showing a list of paths.
	 Click the New button and paste the path to your Python executable there. 
	Once that’s inserted, select your newly added path and click the Move Up button until it’s at the top.

ques 16:-	Is indenttation required in python ?
ans:-Indentation refers to the spaces at the beginning of a code line. Where in other programming languages the indentation in code is for 
readability only, the indentation in Python is very important. Python uses indentation to indicate a block of code.

